My recent journey from the nile to suakim.
By Frederic Villiers, in The Journal of the Society of Arts.

The Advance to Khartoum.
The recent campaign in the Soudan was a bloodless one to the correspondent with the expedition, or, rather, on the tail of the advance. Yet I think, in spite of this little drawback, there is enough in the vicissitudes of my colleagues and myself during the recent advance of the Egyptian troops up the Nile to warrant me addressing you this afternoon. Especially as toward the end of the campaign the Sirdar, or Commander-in-Chief of the Egyptian army, Sir Herbert Kitchener, became more sympathetic with our endeavors to get good copy for our journals, and allowed us to return home by the old trade route of the Eastern Soudan, over which no European had passed since the revolt of the Eastern tribes in 1883. Unfortunately, the period for campaigning in the Soudan is in the hottest months in the year, on the rising of the Nile at the end of July, when the cataracts begin to be practicable for navigation. At the same time, in spite of the heat, it is the healthiest period, for the water, in its brown, muddy, pea soup state, is wholesomer to drink, and the banks of the river, which, when exposed at low Nile, give off unhealthy exhalations, are protected from spreading fever germs by the flood. To show you how much the people of Egypt depend for their very existence on this extraordinary river, the average difference between high and low Nile, giving favorable results, is 26 feet. Twenty-eight feet would cause serious damage by inundation, and the Nile as low as 20 feet would create a famine. The flood of the river depends entirely on the equatorial rains which cause the Upper White Nile to rise in April and the Blue Nile early in June. The muddy Atbara, joining her two sisters about the same time, sends the flood down to Lower Egypt toward the end of August at the rate of 100 miles a day. The Blue Nile in the middle of September falls rapidly away, while the Atbara leaves the trio in October. The White Nile is then left by herself to recede slowly and steadily from a current of four knots an hour to a sluggish and, in many parts, an unwholesome stream. Flies and mosquitoes increase, and fever is rife.

I arrived in Cairo on a sweltering day in July, and found four colleagues, who had been waiting for a week the Sirdar's permission to proceed to the front, still waiting. Luckily, the day after my arrival a telegram came from headquarters, saying that "we might proceed as far as Assouan and their await further orders." This, anyhow, was a move in the right direction; so we at once started. It was rather a bustle for me to get things ready, for Sunday blocked the way and little could be done, even on that day, in Cairo. I procured a servant, a horse and two cases of stores, for the cry was "nothing to be had up country in the shape of food; hardly sufficient sustenance to keep the flies alive." My colleagues, who had the start of me, were able to procure many luxuries—a case of cloudy ammonia for their toilet, and one of chartreuse, komel and benedictine to make their after dinner coffee palatable, and some plum pudding, if Christmas should still find them on the warpath, were a few of the many items that made up the trousseau of these up-to-date war correspondents, though at least one of them had been wedded to the life for many years. Unfortunately I had no time to procure these luxuries, and I had to proceed ammonialess and puddingless to the seat of war. My comrades were quite right. Why not do yourself well if you can? One of them even went in for the luxury of having three shooting irons, two revolvers and a double-barrel slug pistol, so that when either of the weapons got hot while he was holding Baggara horsemen at bay, there was always one cooling, ready to hand. He also, which I believe is a phenomenal record with any campaigner, took with him thirteen pairs of riding breeches, a half dozen razors and an ice machine. Even our commander-in-chief, when campaigning, denies himself more than two shirts and never travels with ice machines. But the thirteen pairs impressed me considerably. Why thirteen, more than fifteen, or any other number? I came to the conclusion that my colleague must certainly be a member of that mystic body the "Thirteen Club," and as he had to bring in the odd number somewhere to keep the club fresh in his memory, he occasionally sat upon it.

I found, after all, there was some wisdom in his eccentricity, for, when riding the camel, mounted on the rough saddle of the country, I often wished that I had my friend's forethought, and I should have been glad to have supplemented mine with his odd number. No doubt my colleague's idea in having such a variety of nether garments was to use them respectively, on a similar principle to the revolvers, when he rode in hot haste with his vivid account of the latest battle to the telegraph office.

But, unfortunately, this recent campaign did not, after all, necessitate these elaborate preparations, for there were no dervishes for us to shoot at or descriptions of bloody battles to be telegraphed. At all events, the cloudy ammonia and the thirteen breeches, with the assistance of a silken sash—a different color for each day of the week—made the brightest and smartest looking little man in camp. However, when I reflect on this new style of war correspondent, who, I forgot to mention, also carried with him two tents, a couple of beds, sundry chairs and tables, a silver-mounted dressing case, two baths, and a gross of toothpicks, and I think of the severe simplicity of the old style of campaigning when a famous correspondent who is still on the warpath, and who always sees the fighting if there be any, on one arduous campaign took with him the modest outfit of a tooth brush and a cake of carbolic soap, I joyfully feel that with the younger generation our profession is keeping pace with the luxury of the times.

From Berber to Suakim
Toward the end of the campaign four colleaguesMessrs. Knight, Gwynne, Scudamore, Maud—and myself, took this opportunity of traversing a country very little known to the outside world, and a route which no European had followed for fourteen years, from Berber to Suakim. Moreover, there was a spice of adventure about it; there was an uncertainty regarding an altogether peaceful time on the way—a contingency which always appeals strongly to Englishmen of a roving and adventurous disposition. Only quite recently raids organized by the apparently irrepressible Osman Digna had been successfully carried out a few miles north and south of Berber. At the moment General Hunter, with two battalions of troops, was marching along the banks of the River Atbara to hunt for Osman and his followers, but there was much speculation as to whether five-and-twenty dervish raiders were still this side of the river, and drawing their water from the wells on the Suakim road.

I was hardly prepared for this journey—one, probably, of twelve days—for my campaigning outfit, which I was compelled to leave on board my nugger on the Nile, had not yet arrived in Berber. Unfortunately, I could not wait for the gear, as the Sirdar insisted on our departure at once, for the road would be certainly insecure directly General Hunter returned from covering our right flank on the Atbara. I had no clothes but what I stood up in, and I had been more or less standing up in them without change for the last two weeks.

Our caravan of nineteen camels, with two young ones, quite babies, following their mothers, and a couple of donkeys, about seven in the evening of the 30th of October quitted the mud-baked town of Berber, sleeping in the light of a new moon, and silently moved across the desert toward the Eastern Star. Next morning at the Morabeh Well, six miles from Berber, our camels having filled themselves up with water, and our numerous girbas, or water skins, being charged with the precious liquid—till they looked as if they were about to burst—our loads were packed and we started on a journey of fifty-two miles before the next water could be reached.

We made quite a formidable show trailing over the desert. Probably it would have been more impressive if our two donkeys had restrained their ambition, and kept in the rear instead of leading the van. But animals mostly have their own way in these parts, and asses are no exception to this rule. The two baby camels commenced "grousing" with their elders directly we halted or made a fresh advance; they probably had an inkling of what was in store for them. After all, the world must seem a hard and unsympathetic place when, having only known it for two or three weeks, you are compelled to make a journey of 240 miles to keep up with your commissariat. One of these babies was only in its eighteenth day. In spite of its tender youth the little beast trotted by the side of its mother, refreshing itself whenever we came to a halt with a pull from her teats, and, to the astonishment of all, arrived in Suakim safe and sound after twelve days' marching.

To the uninitiated regarding the "grousing" of camels, I should explain that it is a peculiar noise which comes from their long funnel necks early or late, and for what reason it is difficult to tell. Sometimes the sound is not unlike the bray of an ass, occasionally it reaches the dignity of the roar of a lion with the bleating of a goat thrown in, then as quickly changes to the solemnity of a church organ. It is altogether so strange a sound that nothing but a phonograph could convey any adequate idea of it. It is a thing to be heard. No pen can properly describe it. After a long march, and when you are preparing to relieve the brute of his load, he begins to grouse. When he is about to start in the morning he grouses. If you hit him, he grouses; if you pat his neck gently, he grouses; if you offer him something to eat, he grouses; and if you twist his tail, he makes the same extraordinary noise. The camel evidently has not a large vocabulary, and he is compelled to express all his various sensations in this simple manner.

The first part of our journey was monotonous enough, miles and miles of weary sandy plains, with alternate stretches of agabas or stony deserts, scored with shallow depressions, where torrential rains had recently soaked into the sand, leaving a glassy, clay-like surface, which had flaked or cracked into huge fissures under the heat of the fierce sun. And at every few hundred yards we came to patches of coarse camel grass, which had evidently cropped up on the coming of the rain, and, by its present aspect, seemed to feel very sorry that it had been induced to put in an appearance, for its sustenance was now fast passing into vapor, and its green young life was rapidly dying out as the sun scorched the tender shoots to the roots. But camels thrive on this parched-up grass, and our brutes nibbled at it whenever one slackened the head-rope.

We traversed the dreary plain, marked every few yards by the bleached bones of camels fallen by the way; the only living thing met with for two days being a snake of the cobra type trailing across our path. The evening of the second day we camped in a long wadi, or shallow valley, full of mimosa trees, where our camels were hobbled and allowed to graze. They delighted in nibbling the young branches of these prickly acacias, which carry thorns at least an inch in length, that serve excellently well for toothpicks. Yet camels seem to rejoice in browsing off these trees, and chew up their thorns without blinking. This I can partly understand, for the camel's usual diet of dry, coarse grass must become rather insipid, and as we sometimes take "sauce piquante" with our cold dishes, so he tickles his palate with one inch thorns.

Climbing ridge after ridge of the dunes, we at last saw stretching before us in the moonlight the valley of Obak, an extensive wadi of mimosa and sunt trees. Our guides halted on a smooth stretch of sand, and I wondered why we were not resting by the wells. Near were three native women squatting round a dark object that looked to me, in the faint light of the moon, like a tray. I walked up to them, thinking they might have some grain upon it for sale, but found to my surprise that it was a hole in the sand, and I realized at once that this must be a well. One of the women was manipulating a leather bucket at the end of a rope, which after a considerable time she began hauling up to the surface. It was about half full of thick, muddy water. Further on along the wadi I now noticed other groups of natives squatting on the sand doing sentinel over the primitive wells. I never came across a more slovenly method of getting water. The mouths of the holes were not banked or protected; a rain storm or sand drift at any moment might have blocked them for a considerable period.

Not being able to get water for the camels was a serious matter, as our animals were not of the strongest, nor had they been recently trained for a long journey without water. This was the evening of the third day from Berber, and many of the poor brutes were showing signs of weakness. We resolved, therefore, to hurry on at once to the next well, that of Ariab; so we left the inhospitable wadi, and started at three in the morning on our next stretch of fifty-three miles.

These night marches were pleasant enough; it was only the hour or two before dawn when the heaviness of sleep troubled us; but just as we began nodding, and felt in danger of falling off our camels, the keen change in the temperature which freshens the desert in the early morning braced us up, and, fully awake, we watched for the coming of Venus. As she sailed across the heavens, she flooded the desert with a warm, soft light, which in its luminosity equaled an English summer moon, and shortly seemingly following her guidance, the great fiery shield of the sun stood up from the horizon, and broad day swept over the plain.

Toward the evening we found ourselves in a bowlder-strewn basin amid rocky, sterile hills, evidently the offshoots and spurs of the Jeb-el-Gharr, which stood out a purple serrated mass on our left, and here we saw for the first time for many a month rain clouds piling up above the rocky heights. Their tops, catching the rosy glow from the declining sun, appeared in their quaint forms like loftier mountains with their snowy summits all aglow. This was, indeed, a grateful sight to us; the camels already pricked up their ears, for the smell of moisture was in the air. We knew that the end of our waterless journey was not far off; for where those clouds were discharging their precious burdens the valley of Ariab lay. But many a weary ridge of black rock and agaba must still be crossed before our goal was reached.

We camped at six that evening till midnight, when we started on our record march. Unfortunately at this time my filter gave out, owing to the perishable nature of the rubber tubing; the remaining water in our girbas was foul and nauseating from the strong flavor of the skins. I resolved to try and hold out without touching the thick, greasy fluid, and wait till the wells of Ariab were reached. As we advanced, the signs of water became more and more apparent; the camel grass was greener down by the roots, and mimosa and sunt trees flourished at every few hundred yards. When morning came, for the first time we heard the chirruping and piping of birds. The camels increased their pace, and all became eager to reach our destination before the extreme heat of the day. But pass after pass was traversed, and valley after valley crossed, and yet the wadi of Ariab, with its cool, deep wells of precious water, was still afar. It was not till past two o'clock in the afternoon that a long, toilsome defile of rugged rock brought us on the edge of a steep descent, and before us lay the winding Khor of Ariab, with its mass of green fresh foliage throwing gentle shadows on the silver sand of its dry watercourse. It seemed an age as we traversed that extended khor before our guide pointed to a large tree on our right, and said "Moja." We dismounted under the shadow of its branches, and found awaiting us the sheikh of the valley, who pressed our hands and greeted us in a most friendly way; but I was almost mad with thirst, and asked for the well. I was taken to a mound a few yards from our retreat, on the sides of which were two or three clay scoop-outs, all dry but one, and this held a few gallons of tepid water, from which camels had been drinking. The man took a gourd, half filled it, and offered it to me to drink. "But the well, the well!" I cried. "Oh! that's a little higher up," said he, and he led me to a wide revetted well about fifty feet deep, at the bottom of which, reflecting the sky, shone the water like a mirror. "That's the water I want," said I. The man shook his head. "You cannot drink of that till your baggage camels arrive; we have no means of reaching it." I almost groaned aloud, and with the agony of the Ancient Mariner could well cry, "Water, water everywhere, but not a drop to drink." There was no help for it. I made my way back to the shadow of the tree, threw myself on my blanket, and, racked with thirst, tried to wait patiently for the coming of the camel men. Fortunately, the sheikh of the well was inspired with hospitality, and after a while brought us some fresh milk in a metal wash basin, a utensil which he evidently produced in honor of our visit. I took a long draught, and though it was associated with native ablutions, I shall always remember it with the greatest satisfaction. We camped for 24 hours in the sylvan vicinity of Ariab Wells—stretched ourselves in the broad shadows of its mimosa trees, and drank of and bathed in its sweet, cool waters.

This long rest improved our camels wonderfully. By the bye, there was much speculation between two of our party regarding the behavior of these curious animals on arriving at the wells after their long waterless march. A general impression was that for the last few miles the camels would race for the waters, and thwart all endeavors to hold them in. My experience of the strange beast was otherwise, and subsequent events proved that I was right. When the Hamleh, as we christened our caravan, arrived, the camels quietly waited awhile after their burdens were taken from their humps. Then, as if an afterthought had struck them, they slowly approached the scoop-outs and with the most indifferent air would take a mouthful of the liquid, then, stiffening their necks, they would lift their heads and calmly survey the scenery around them, till their drivers would draw their attention to the fact that there was at least another draught of water in the pool. It should be remembered that these animals had just come off a continuous journey of nearly fifteen hours, without a halt, and had been for three whole days without water.

We left our camping ground as the sun began to dip behind the hills shutting in the khor. Our way now lay in a more northeasterly direction, and the sun threw the hills and valleys we were approaching into a marvelous medley of glorious color, and more than one of us regretted that we had not brought our color boxes with us. Sometimes we seemed to catch a glimpse of the heather-clad Highlands of Scotland. Then a twist in the khor we were traversing suggested the rugged passes of Afghanistan. Gazelle and ariel stole among the foot hills or stood gazing at us as near as a stone's throw. One of our party, Mr. Gwynne, commenced stalking a gazelle, but, darkness setting in, the beast got away. For the rest of the journey to Suakim, however, he had good sport, and saved us many a time from going hungry with his shooting for the pot.

About 34 miles from Ariab we came to one of the most interesting spots of the whole journey—the extensive Valley of Khokreb, wherein lay the deserted dervish dem, or stronghold. Here some followers of Osman Digna used to levy toll on all caravans and persons moving toward Suakim, or taking routes south. The dem consisted of a number of well built tokuls, or straw huts, standing in their compounds, with stabling for horses and pounds for cattle. The whole was surrounded with a staked wall, in front of which was a zariba of prickly mimosa bush, to stop a sudden onrush of an enemy. The place was intact, but there was not a living soul within it, or in the vast valley in which it stood, that we could see. In fact, our whole journey up to the present seemed to be through a country that might have been ravished by some plague or bore some fatal curse. As the light of the moon prevailed, we came upon an extensive plain shelving upward toward steep hills. Specks of bright light stood out against the distant background, and we presently found that the moonlight was glinting on spear heads, and soon a line of camels crept toward us, and marching as escort was a small guard of Hadendowahs, with spear and shield.

We found the convoy to be a detachment of a caravan of 160 camel loads of stores sent from Suakim to Berber by that enterprising Greek, Angelo, of the former town. They had been on the road already eight days, having to move cautiously owing to rumors of dervish activity, but had arrived so far safely. We bivouacked for several hours in the Wadi of Salalat, which was quite parklike with its fine growth of sunt trees.

sic

The next morning we came in view of Suakim, the city of white coral, with her surf-beaten opalesque reefs stretching as far as the eye could follow. It seemed strange to me to be peacefully moving toward her outlying forts, for when I was last in her vicinity one could not go twenty yards outside the town without being shot at or running the gauntlet of a few spears. But here I was, slowly approaching its walls, accompanied by some of the very men who in those days would have cut my throat without the slightest hesitation.

sic

The principal feature about Suakim to-day is its remarkable water supply. In 1884 our troops had to depend on condensed sea water, supplied from an old steamer anchored in the harbor, and the town folk drew an uncertain supply from the few wells outside the town. But now Suakim never wants for water, and that of the best. She even boasts of a fountain in the little square opposite the governor's house. Engineer Mason is responsible for this state of efficiency, to which Suakim owes much of her present immunity from disease. During the last twelve years immense condensing works have been erected on Quarantine Station; but, better still, about two years ago Mr. Mason discovered an apparently inexhaustible supply near Gemaiza, about three miles from the town. There is a theory—which this water finding has made a possible fact—that as coral does not grow in fresh water, the channel which allows steamers to approach close up to the town, through her miles of coral reefs, is caused by a fresh water current running from the shore.

However, on this theory Mason set to work and found a splendid supply at Fort Charter; an excavation in the khor there, about 200 feet long and 40 deep, is now an immense cistern of sweet water, the result of which the machines condensing 150 tons of water a day are now only required to produce one-half the quantity, saving the Egyptian government a considerable outlay.

The natives look upon Mason as a magician, the man who turns the salt ocean into sweet water. But metal refuse, scraps of iron, old boiler plates, under his magic touch, are also turned into the most useful things. For instance, the steam hammer used in the government workshop is rigged on steel columns from the debris of an engine room of a wrecked vessel. The hammer is the crank of a disused shaft of a cotton machine, the anvil is from an old "monkey," that drove the piles for the Suakim landing stage in 1884; the two cylinders are from an effete ice machine, and the steam and exhaust pipes come from a useless locomotive of the old railway. A lathe, a beautiful piece of workmanship, is fashioned out of one of the guns found at Tamai. And the building which covers these useful implements was erected by this clever engineer in the Sirdar's service, who had utilized the rails of the old Suakim-Berber line as girders for its roof, and, in my humble opinion, this is probably the very best purpose for which they can be used.


Apparatus for obtaining the cubature of trees

In the exploitation of forests it is an important matter to be able to measure the cubature of trees, and the process most generally employed consists in determining their height and mean circumference, the apparatus used for this latter measurement being compasses having the form of the calipers used by mechanics. The figure indicated is read upon the graduated rule and is called off in a loud voice to another person, who at once writes it down. There are several causes of error: it is possible that the reading may be incorrectly made or improperly called off, or be misunderstood or incorrectly noted. Finally, it is a somewhat fatiguing operation that is often dispensed with and the measurement made by estimate. In order to do away with all such causes of error, M. Jobez, a mining engineer, has had M. Peccaud construct an apparatus that automatically registers all the measurements upon a paper tape analogous to that used in the Morse telegraphic apparatus.

Fig. 1

The registering mechanism (Fig. 1) is fixed to the movable branch that forms the slide of the instrument. It is so arranged that when this branch is slid along the rule carrying the graduations, a gearing causes the revolution of a wheel, D, which carries figures corresponding to such graduation. At the same time, two feed rollers, E, cause a small portion of the paper tape (which is wound upon a spool, A) to move forward and wind around a receiving spool, B. After the apparatus has been made accurately to embrace the trunk of the tree to be measured, it is removed and a pressure given to the lever, H, which applies the paper to the type wheel, D. A special button permits, in addition, of making a dot alongside of the numbers, if it be desired to attract attention to one of the measurements, either for distinguishing one kind of a tree from another or for any other reason.

With this apparatus one man can make all the measurements and inscribe them without any possible error and without any fatigue. It is possible for him to inscribe a thousand numbers an hour, and the tapes are long enough to permit of 4,000 measurements being made without a change of paper. There is, therefore, a saving of time as well as perfect accuracy in the operation.

Fig. 2

In order to make the calculations necessary for the estimate, M. Laurand has devised a sliding rule which facilitates the operation and which is based upon the method that consists in knowing the height and mean circumference of the tree. The circumference taken in the middle is divided by 4, 4.8 or 5 according as one employs the quarter without deduction or the sixth or fifth deduced. This first result, multiplied by itself and by the height, gives the cubature of the tree. As for the value, that is the product of this latter number by the price per cubic meter. It will be seen that there is a series of somewhat lengthy operations to be performed, and it is in order to dispense with these that has been constructed the rule under consideration, which, like all calculating rules, consists of two parts, one of which slides upon the other (Fig. 2). Upon each of these there are two graduated scales, or four in all, the first of which is designed for the circumference and the second for the height of the tree, the third for the price of the cubic meter and the fourth for the total result, that is, the value of the entire tree. The arrangements are such that, after the number corresponding to the circumference of the tree has been brought opposite that corresponding to its height, the result will be found opposite the price per cubic meter.

Thus, in the position represented in the figure, we may suppose a tree having a circumference of 2.5 m. and a height of 3.2 m.; then, if a cubic meter is worth 25 francs, the tree will be worth 20 francs.

In order to simplify the calculations and the construction of the rule, no account is taken of points; but this is of no importance, since the error that might be made in misplacing one would be so great that it would be immediately detected. A 2 franc tree would not be confounded with a 20 or a 200 franc one. As an approximation, the first two figures of the result are obtained accurately; and that suffices, because, since the whole is based upon an approximate measurement, which is the mean circumference of the tree, we cannot exact absolute precision in the results. The essential thing is to have a practically acceptable figure.

CAUSES OF POVERTY.
The most interesting, and at the same time the most difficult, problem connected with an analysis of cases is to determine the real cause of destitution. It requires great experience and intelligence on the part of workers in charity to give even approximately the fundamental reason why a certain family has come to destitution. To classify cases from records without personal knowledge of each case, and then simply to count the cases, is a very inadequate method of arriving at the truth. The primary difficulty, of course, is to reach a classification. The one adopted by Mr. Warner in his book on American charities is: 1. Causes indicating misconduct; 2. Causes indicating misfortune. Under the first head come drink, immorality, laziness, shiftlessness and inefficiency, crime and dishonesty, a roving disposition. Under the second head come lack of normal support, matters of employment, matters of personal capacity, such as sickness or death in family, etc. The trouble with such a classification is that one cause may lie behind another, as drink is often the cause of lack of employment, of sickness or accident. On the other hand, lack of employment may lead to drink, immorality or laziness.

With the limited number of cases that have been analyzed in this investigation, it would be impossible to expect any very conclusive results. We have endeavored, however, to make up for the small amount of the material by a careful and intelligent analysis, and by approaching the subject from three different points. We have first taken the alleged cause of distress—that is, the reason assigned by the person applying for relief. This, of course, will present the most favorable side, and the one most calculated to excite sympathy. We have, secondly, tabulated the real cause of distress, as gathered by the tabulator from the whole record. This, of course, is the judgment of an outside party, and the emphasis will be laid upon misfortune or misconduct according to the disposition of the investigator. We have, thirdly, the character of the man and woman as gathered from the record. This is supplementary evidence as to the real cause of distress. We go on now to present these three points of view. Loss of employment, 313; sickness or accident, 226; intemperance, 25; insufficient earnings, 52; physical defect or old age, 45; death of wage earner, 40; desertion, 40; other causes and uncertain, 103; total, 844. An attempt was made to follow the example of Mr. Booth and introduce supplementary causes as well as principal causes. About the only result, however, is that sickness often accompanies loss of employment, and that loss of employment often accompanies sickness or accident. It is clearly seen in this whole table how disposed applicants for relief are to attribute their distress to circumstances beyond their control.

In the following table we have an attempt to analyze the real cause of distress, according to the judgment of the tabulator as gathered from the full record. In chronic cases the same cause is apt to appear in the successive applications. It was thought that this might lead to undue accumulation of particular causes. A separate tabulation, therefore, was made for the 500 first applications, and then for the total—832 applications. The table is as follows:

The real cause of distress

 	First Applications.	Total Applications.
 	Number.	Percent.	Number.	Per cent.
Lack of employment.	115	25.0	184	22.1
Sickness or accident.	102	20.4	164	19.7
Physical defects or old age.	27	5.4	42	5.0
Death of wage earner.	18	3.6	30	3.6
Desertion	15	3.0	24	2.9
Intemperance	87	17.4	166	19.9
Shiftlessness	50	10.0	101	12.2
No need	86	17.2	121	14.6
Total	500	100.0	832	100.0


miscellaneous notes


Orders for large quantities of aluminum have been received within the
last few weeks by the Pittsburg Reduction Company from the principal
foreign nations for the equipment of their armies. The contracts
aggregate about fifty tons a month, Russia being the largest consumer.

According to the return published by the Minister of Agriculture, the
consumption of horseflesh in Paris has decreased slightly in the last
year, being only 4,472 tons, as against 4,664 tons for 1895-96. This
was the meat derived from 20,878 horses, 53 mules and 232 donkeys
slaughtered during the twelve months; but a very strict supervision is
exercised, and 575 of these animals were condemned as unfit for human
food. The flesh of the remainder was sold at 190 stalls or shops, and,
although the fillet and undercut made as much as 9d. a pound, the
inferior parts sold for 2d. or less, and most of the meat was used for
making sausages.

According to La Propriété Industrielle, 5,372 Austrian patents were
granted in 1896 (5,215 in 1895). Of these, residents of the
Austro-Hungarian monarchy received 2,070 (2,031 in 1895), Austrians
coming first with 1,813 (1,683 in 1895), Hungarians second with 254
(347 in 1895), while residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina secured 3
patents (1 in 1895). Among foreigners the following show an increase
over 1895: United States, 394 (335); Great Britain, 355 (313); France,
244 (243); Switzerland, 94 (79); Belgium, 66 (48); Sweden and Norway,
60 (40); Italy, 50 (45); Russia, 47 (40); Australia, 32 (10); and
Netherlands, 26 (18). A decrease is shown by Germany, 1,887 (1,950);
Denmark, 10 (17); Canada, 7 (14); and Spain, 6 (10). The total number
of Austrian patents granted to foreigners in 1896 was 3,302, as
against 3,184 in 1895.

English and French lighthouses--An English engineer named Purves has
just made a comparison in regard to the intensity of light of the
lighthouses on the English coasts and those which illuminate the
shores of France. The comparison shows results which are altogether
favorable to France. The average illumination intensity of eighty-six
English lighthouses of the first class is 20,680 candle power, while
thirty-six first class French lighthouses give an average of 34,166
candle power. The difference is more striking if the lighthouses
constructed within the last ten years be considered. Since 1886 France
has built eleven lighthouses, whose average intensity of light is
8,200,000 candle power; the new lighthouse of Eckmühl gives
40,000,000. According to Mr. Purves, the superior intensity of light
of the French lighthouse lies in the use of the flashing rays, which
have not yet found favor in England.

In an address by Thomas Morris, before the Staffordshire, England,
iron and steel works managers on the remarkable achievements that have
been reached in the manufacture of fine wire, the interesting fact was
mentioned that the lecturer had been presented by Warrington, the wire
manufacturer, with specimens for which some $4.32 per pound were paid,
or more than $8,600 per ton--drawn wire, largely used in the
construction of piano and other musical and mechanical instruments.
Among these specimens also was pinion wire, at a market price of
$21.60 per pound, or $43,200 per ton. It took 754 hairsprings to weigh
an ounce of 437½ grains; 27,000,000 of these were required to make a
ton, and, taking one to be worth 1½ cents, the value of a ton of these
cheap little things ran up to over $400,000. The barbed instruments
used by dentists for extracting nerves from teeth were even more
expensive, representing some $2,150,000 per ton.

At a fête in the Elysée Palace the other day one of the features
prepared for the entertainment of the guests was a cinematograph,
which contained views taken during President Faure's visit to St.
Petersburg. One of the pictures settled for the President a question
which had been troubling him considerably. Several months ago a German
paper printed an interview with Bismarck, in which the ex-chancellor
commented on M. Faure's visit to St. Petersburg, saying that the
Frenchman had conducted himself according to etiquette except on one
occasion, when, on his arrival in the Russian capital he had been
saluted by the Cossack guard of honor, he had returned the salute with
the hand, not with the hat. M. Faure being a civilian, this was a
serious breach of etiquette, Bismarck said. The interview was
reprinted in the French papers and caught the President's eye. He was
much concerned about the matter and asked several friends who had been
present if he had actually committed the breach. No one could
remember. Then came the cinematograph show. As the small audience
gazed upon the screen they saw the President's image advance with
slow, dignified step before the Cossacks, then all at once raise his
hand to his hat, which he lifted with the quick motion so familiar to
Parisians. The guests burst into applause and the President smiled.
Bismarck was mistaken.

"We hear a great deal regarding the decline of our shipping interests,
and so far as our shipping in the foreign trade is concerned it is
unfortunately true," says The Boston Commercial Bulletin. "But few
people realize the immensity of our coastwise commerce. The Custom
House figures on the shipping of the port of New York for 1897 show
that there were 4,614 arrivals of vessels from foreign ports, 7,095
from Eastern domestic ports, and 3,798 from Southern domestic ports.
Of the foreign, 2,313 were British, of which 1,667 were steamships;
952 were American, of which 323 were steamships, and 517 were German
of which 444 were steamships. This statement shows that the arrivals
from American ports were nearly three times those from foreign
countries, though of course this proportion is not borne out in
tonnage, vessels on the deep sea trade averaging larger. But it will
be doubtless a surprise that of the shipping from foreign ports more
than one-fifth were American. At other Atlantic and Gulf ports this
proportion undoubtedly does not hold true, but these figures show a
less doleful condition of the American marine than some people have
been led to expect. When it is remembered that the coastwise fleet
numbers many steamers of 2,000 to 3,000 tons and many sailing craft of
1,000 tons and upward, it will be seen that we are yet a sea power of
the first class, in fact exceeded only by England."


selected formulæ


Essence of pepsin--

  1. Pepsin (pure)                     128 grains.
     Dilute muriatic acid                5 drops.
     Simple elixir                       3 fl. ounces.
     Glycerin                            1     "
     Water                              16     "
     Angelica wine                       6     "

Dissolve by agitation and filter through purified talcum.

  2. Glycerole of pepsin                 3 parts.
     Sherry wine                         5   "
     Glycerin                            1   "
     Simple elixir, to make             16   "

  3. Pepsin in scales                   64 grains.
     Glycerin                            1 fl. ounce.
     Elixir taraxacum compound           1      "
     Alcohol                             2      "
     Oil of cloves                       1 drop.
     Sirup                               2 fl. ounces.
     Dilute hydrochloric acid            1 fl. drachm.
     Water, to make                     16 fl. ounces.

                                 --Pharmaceutical Era.


Applications to insect bites--Brocq & Jacquet (Indépendance
médicale, October 20) recommend the following for the bites of bugs,
fleas and gnats:

  1. Camphorated oil of chamomile        100 parts.
     Liquid storax                        20   "
     Essence of peppermint                 5   "
  M.
  2. Olive oil                            20 parts.
     Storax ointment                      25   "
     Balsam of Peru                        5   "
  M.
  3. Naphthol                        5 to 10 parts.
     Ether, enough to dissolve it.
     Menthol                         ¼ to 1 part.
     Vaseline                        100 parts.


Bead for liquors--In the liquor trade, anything added to liquors to
cause them to carry a "bead" and to hang in pearly drops about the
side of the glass or bottle when poured out or shaken is called
"beading," the popular notion being that liquor is strong in alcohol
in proportion as it "beads." The object of adding a so-called "bead
oil" is to impart this quality to a low-proof liquor, so that it may
appear to the eye to be of the proper strength. The following formulas
for "bead oil" are given:

  1. Sweet almond oil                   1 fl. ounce.
     Sulphuric acid, concentrated       1      "
     Sugar, lump, crushed               1 ounce.
     Alcohol, sufficient.

Triturate the oil and acid very carefully together in a glass,
Wedgwood or porcelain mortar or other suitable vessel; add by degrees
the sugar, continue trituration until the mixture becomes pasty, and
then gradually add enough alcohol to render the whole perfectly fluid.
Transfer to a quart bottle and wash out the mortar twice or oftener
with strong alcohol until about 20 fluid ounces in all of the latter
has been used, the washings to be added to the mixture in the bottle.
Cautiously agitate the bottle, loosely corked, until admixture appears
complete, and set aside in a cool place. This quantity of "oil" is
supposed to be sufficient for 100 gallons of liquor, but is more
commonly used for about 80 or 85 gallons. The liquor treated with this
"oil" is usually allowed to become clearer by simple repose.

  2. Soapwort, coarsely ground           13 ounces.
     Diluted alcohol, enough to make      1 gallon.

Extract the soapwort by maceration or percolation.

This is also intended for 80 gallons of liquor, preferably adding to
the latter one-half gallon of simple sirup.

The ingredients of the above formulas, according to the "Manual of
Beverages," are not injurious--not at least in the quantities required
for "beading." It is said that beyond a certain degree of dilution of
the liquor with water, these preparations fail to produce the intended
effect. The addition of sugar or sirup increases their efficacy.
                                           --Pharmaceutical Era.


Quinine hair tonic--

  1. Quinine sulphate                     1 part.
     Tincture cantharides                10  "
     Glycerin                            75  "
     Alcohol                            500  "
     Tincture rhatany                    20  "
     Spirit lavender                     50  "

  2. Tincture cinchona                   50  "
     Tincture cantharides                25  "
     Peru balsam                         20  "
     Tincture soap                      150  "
     Cologne water                      250  "
     Cognac                           2,000  "
     Oil bergamot                        10  "
     Oil sweet orange                    10  "
     Oil rose geranium                    3  "

  3. Bisulphate of quinine                ½ ounce.
     Vinegar of cantharides              2½   "
     Spirit of rosemary                  18   "
     Lavender water                       8   "
     Glycerite of borax                   1   "
     Glycerin                            14   "
     Distilled water                     80   "
     Caramel, sufficient to color.

                           --Pharmaceutical Era.


Soap for removing rust--
                                   Parts by Weight.
  Whiting                                 9
  Oil soap                                6
  Cyanide of potassium                    5
  Water                                  60

Dissolve the soap in water over the fire and add the cyanide, then
little by little the whiting. If the compound is too thick, which may
be due either to the whiting or the soap employed, add a little water
until a paste is made which can be run into an iron or wooden mould.
This will remove rust from steel and give it a good polish.--Oils,
Colors and Drysalteries.







Elliptical Integrals of the Second Order
by Arthur L. Baker, an excerpt of a chapter from Elliptic Functions

Landen's Transformation can also be applied to Elliptic Integrals of this class.

elleqn01

After a series of trivial steps, we arrive at:

elleqn02

By successive applications of elleqn02, Ekphi may be made to depend ultimately upon Ek0nphin, where k0n approximates to zero and Ek0nphin to phin.

Or, by reversing, it may be made to depend upon Eknphi0n, where kn approximates to unity and Eknphi0n to cosphi0n.

To facilitate this, assume

elleqn03

Subtracting from the equation

elleqn04

we have

elleqn05

Repeated applications of this give

elleqn06

Whence

elleqn07

But since

elleqn08

or

elleqn09

and since, also,

elleqn10

we have

elleqn11

elleqn12

With substitution of identities into this form, we can arrive at our answer.
